Welcome back to Movie Recapped. Today I
will show you a comedy film from 1994,
titled Dumb and Dumber. Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care.
The film opens in Rhode Island, where a limousine
is pulling up next to a bus stop. When the rear
door window is lowered, we meet our protagonist,
Lloyd Christmas, who asks a girl at the stop for
directions to the medical school - he's supposed
to give a lecture there and his driver is lost.
The girl explains to him how to get there
with a heavy accent, which Lloyd compliments.
She tells him she's from Austria, and completely
misunderstanding, Lloyd speaks again faking an
Australian accent and slang instead. The girl
obviously is turned off by this so she turns
him down, and Lloyd pulls up the window again,
only to put on the driver's cap and move back
to the wheel. As Lloyd gets back to the road, he
drives by a fast food joint where his best friend,
Harry Dunne, is getting some food back to his van
- both he and the vehicle are dressed up as dogs.
As he hits the road too, he feeds sandwiches to
the dogs he's groomed. His driving gets reckless
when he gets a call saying that he's late to
the show he's supposed to be taking the dogs to,
which causes the dogs to slide all over
the van. Meanwhile, Lloyd is arriving at
a very fancy house. After parking the limo, he
knocks on the door in a rather obnoxious way and
it's opened by his client Mary Swanson, whom he
immediately gets infatuated with. A moment later,
when both are in the limo on their way to the
airport, Lloyd tries to get a conversation going.
Mary mentions she's going to Aspen, and Lloyd
comments on him and Harry saving money to start
their own pet shop that specializes in worm farms.
Mary is incredibly tense during the whole trip,
which she blames on flying nerves, but
it's obviously a lie. Back to Harry,
after some very intense driving, he finally makes
it to the dog show, where one of the dog owners is
extremely worried about her pet's looks, but Harry
promises he's groomed them all perfectly. When he
opens the door, however, all the dogs are covered
in condiments. In the meantime, Lloyd and Mary
make it to the airport. After giving her all her
bags, Lloyd offers Mary a hug, which she awkwardly
takes but doesn't reciprocate. Lloyd returns
to his limo and Mary enters the airport, where
henchmen Joe "Mental" Mentalino and J. P. Shay are
getting ready to pick up the suitcase Mary will
be leaving near the escalator. Outside, Lloyd is
driving slowly in order to be able to look at Mary
through the airport's glass walls, which causes
him to hit another car. This delay allows him
to see Mary leaving the suitcase behind, and since
he thinks she's forgetting it by accident, he runs
out of the limo and enters the airport to snatch
the suitcase right under the henchmen's noses.
He then tries to take it back to Mary, for which
he enters the boarding area - but since the plane
has already left, Lloyd falls out of the jetway.
Some hours later, Lloyd and Harry are returning to
their apartment in a rather humble neighborhood,
and they've been followed by the henchmen,
who think they're working for someone powerful.
We see Mental is taking pills for his ulcer.
Inside the apartment, Lloyd and Harry share
the same news: they've both lost their jobs.
Harry asks Lloyd about the briefcase, he tells him
it's a love memento and that he can't get it open.
Their chat is interrupted by the henchmen
knocking on their door, and after checking
who it is through the peephole, they reach
the conclusion they're gas debt collectors,
so they take the suitcase and escape through the
window. The henchmen force their way inside and
when they don't find the briefcase, they decide to
leave a message by decapitating Harry's parakeet.
Night has fallen by the time Harry and Lloyd
return to their place after spending their whole
day job hunting. Harry goes back to the apartment
with the suitcase while Lloyd goes to the store,
promising to only get the bare essentials with
their last money. He ends up buying a lot of
knickknacks, and when he stops by a newspaper box,
he accidentally leaves his wallet inside while
retrieving the magazine. He doesn't have change
to open the box again, so when he sees an old lady
passing by, he asks her to watch over his things
while he goes back to the store to break a dollar.
A moment later, he returns to the apartment
and tells Harry the old lady robbed him blind.
Harry mentions his parakeet died, and this makes
Lloyd snap. Tired of the dump they're living in,
he wants to leave and go to Aspen. Harry turns
down the idea when he realizes Lloyd only wants
to go after Mary, but after a heartfelt speech
from his friend, he accepts. They hit the road
the next day, where Lloyd tells Harry that
he got some extra money from selling the
dead parakeet to a blind kid. Meanwhile, back in
their building, the henchmen are visiting again,
only to find a note on the door apologizing
to the "gas man". This makes them think the
friends are pros that have been following
them, because they know about Mental's ulcer.
They decide to follow them to Aspen. Back to Harry
and Lloyd, they've stopped at a diner to eat.
When Harry accidentally spills some salt, Lloyd
tells him it's bad luck and he should counter it
by tossing salt over his shoulder. Lloyd throws
the entire shaker and hits a man, Sea Bass,
who angrily comes over to the table and spits at
Harry's burger as revenge. The guys finish their
meal but are still frustrated by what happened,
so Lloyd gets an idea. They go to Sea Bass' table
to apologize and offer to buy beers for Sea Bass
and his friends, which they accept. However, when
they talk to the waitress, they tell her Sea Bass
has agreed to pay their bill and when the waitress
looks at his table, the men nod, thinking she's
wondering about the beers. That's enough for her
to put their bill under Sea Bass' name. Shortly
afterward, the guys are successfully driving
away from the diner as Sea Bass, his friends and
the waitresses try to go after them to no avail.
Back on the road, Lloyd asks Harry to pull
over when possible because he needs to pee.
Harry refuses, since he thinks that would give
Sea Bass the chance to catch up with them,
and tells Lloyd to pee into some empty beer
bottles - he ends up filling quite a few of them.
A motor cop sees them drive by and follows
them to ask them to pull over. After parking,
he asks Harry for his license and notices the open
beer bottles, which are illegal to have in a car.
He tells them to hand them over and as soon as
he grabs one, the cop takes a sip, not listening
to the guys' warnings. The taste is obviously
disgusting, so the cop lets them go before he
retches on the road. We then cut to Aspen, where
Mary is chatting with her father Karl Swanson
and her stepmother Helen Swanson. She doesn't
understand how the money she left at the airport
hasn't reached the kidnappers yet. At that moment,
a friend of the family arrives, Nicholas Andre.
He thinks they should cancel the preservation
gala they were planning, but Karl disagrees:
they should continue to act normally not
to alert the authorities and the press,
otherwise the kidnappers could do something
drastic. Meanwhile, night has fallen on the road,
Harry sleeps while Lloyd drives and daydreams
about Mary. He imagines himself arriving at Aspen,
getting together with Mary after returning the
briefcase to her, impressing her friends with
jokes, fighting some waiters at a restaurant
for her honor, and taking Mary to his room to
make love to her. He's snapped out of it by an
incoming truck that he dodges just in time. They
decide to spend the night at a love hotel, which
Harry tells Lloyd it brings back bad memories
about an ex-girlfriend that left him for another
guy. He doesn't know whom, but Lloyd's faces tell
us it was him. Outside the hotel, we find the
henchmen. Mental is on the phone with his boss,
who turns out to be Nicholas. While he talks to
him, a stranger keeps asking him to hurry up and
free the phone, so Mental punches him through the
booth glass before promising Nicholas he'll get
that briefcase back. The next morning, the guys go
back to the road and find Mental next to his car
pretending to be a hitchhiker while Shay hides to
follow them later. They accept to give him a ride,
which means Mental ends up sitting between them
and being incredibly annoyed by their bickering,
weird noises and bad singing. He's about to
take out his gun when the guys pick up even more
hitchhikers, so Mental has no other choice but
to endure. Some hours later, they stop at another
diner, where Mental convinces the guys to try the
chili papers. While they freak out over how spicy
they are, Mental goes outside to call Nicholas
and tell him he'll kill the pair with rat poison.
Then he returns to his table, where the guys
have secretly put a bunch of chilly papers on his
burger. After discovering their possession of the
briefcase is a coincidence, he bites the burger,
causing him to react adversely because of his
ulcer. Twitching on the floor, Mental asks for
his pills, which Harry searches for while Lloyd
tries to give CPR. Harry grabs the wrong bottle,
however, and ends up giving Mental the rat poison,
effectively killing him. The guys rush out of the
diner before the cops arrive. They talk to the
waitress and find out they must follow a sheepdog
car. Lloyd and Harry continue their road trip, and
when night falls, they stop to at a gas station.
While Lloyd goes to the bathroom, Harry refills
the gas tank and chats with Beth Jordan, who has
parked next to him and is also going to Aspen.
He's so distracted by her that he spills gas on
his legs and the floor. Meanwhile, Lloyd finds out
the stall he's at is used for intimacy and someone
arrives right in time for it: it's Sea Bass. We
cut back to Harry, who is still chatting with
Beth and lends her a match to light her cigarette.
He throws the match to the floor and accidentally
starts a fire on his wet pants, which makes him
snap at Beth, so she leaves. Harry runs to the
bathroom, where Sea Bass is making Lloyd fall
to his knees to use his mouth, but Harry knocks
him out when he pushes the stall door open
to put his burning leg in the toiler water.
Moments later, we see the police waiting for
them on the road to Colorado. But Lloyd has
taken over the driving and he's too distracted to
notice he's taking the wrong turn, which at least
helps him avoid the cops. In the morning, Harry
wakes up and finds out about Lloyd's mistake.
They stop the van and have an argument, Harry is
angry because they have no money for gas or food,
so he decides to leave Lloyd and walk back home.
Some hours later, he's suddenly approached by
Lloyd riding a minibike he traded for the van in
town. This is enough for Harry to forgive him and
climb on the bike, resuming their trip to Aspen.
They make it to Aspen a couple of days later and
they're almost freezing. They want to return the
briefcase, but Lloyd doesn't know where Mary lives
and has no way to find out. When night falls, the
guys are at a park, trying to stay warm next to
a fire. When Lloyd reveals he's been wearing an
extra pair of gloves and didn't share, Harry gets
angry and decides to get rid of the briefcase.
Lloyd fights him for it and in the struggle,
the briefcase falls and finally opens, revealing
tons of cash inside. The guys decide there's
nothing wrong with borrowing just a few bucks and
leaving I.O.U.s promising to pay them back later.
But they end up going crazy with the expenses.
They choose a presidential suite at a hotel,
buy a fancy car plus expensive yet ridiculous
clothes, and overtip the hotel employees.
While enjoying the luxury of their room, they
find out about Mary and her gala in the newspaper
and decide to attend. After a montage of them
getting groomed and buying weird suits, they
arrive at the gala, where they pay Nicholas extra
money and accidentally spray his eyes to get in.
After they're gone, Shay approaches Nicholas and
tells them those are the guys that killed Mental.
Lloyd and Harry go to the bar and have a drink
while on the stage, Karl introduces the latest
species his preservation will be housing: the snow
owl. After the presentation is over, they finally
see Mary, but Lloyd is too nervous to talk to
her so he sends Harry to do the talking for him.
Harry approaches Mary and after chitchatting
about animals, he tries to introduce her to Lloyd,
but Helen interrupts them. She's very amused
by his weird suit, and since Mary hasn't left
the house for a while, she arranges a date for
her and Harry the next day. Harry accepts and
goes back to Lloyd, telling him the date is for
him. Lloyd decides to celebrate this by opening
a bottle of champagne, and the cork he shoots ends
up killing one of the owls. The next day, Nicholas
and Shay come to the conclusion that the dead
owl was revenge for the parakeet and a message.
Meanwhile, the guys are ready to go out. Harry
tries to make Lloyd change his mind about Mary,
and when he can't, he gives him the wrong meeting
place. While Lloyd goes to the hotel bar to wait,
Harry joins Mary at the slopes. They get on the
ski lift and when he sees frost on the pole,
Harry tries to lick it and gets his tongue
stuck on it. Back in the bar, Lloyd is starting
to accept he's been stood up, so the bartender
gifts him a pity beer as Beth suddenly shows up
and sits next to him. In the meantime, Mary pulls
Harry's head to unstick his tongue from the pole,
then they have some fun together playing
in the snow. We cut to the bar again,
where Lloyd is getting sick of Beth's whining
so he asks the bartender if he knows Mary.
The bartender tells him where she lives,
so Lloyd leaves the place to visit her.
Some moments later, Harry and Mary are arriving
at her place. She's enjoyed herself a lot,
so she asks Harry to pick her up tonight, which
he accepts. After she enters her house and Harry
leaves on the car, we discover Lloyd saw it all
and is hurt by the betrayal. Later in the evening,
in their hotel room, Lloyd tells Harry he's been
stood up, and Harry pretends to be outraged.
But suddenly he gets an idea for another lie and
tells Lloyd that Mary probably meant ten p.m.,
not a.m. Lloyd pretends to accept this and when he
hears Harry is leaving for the movies, he prepares
a toast by slipping laxative into Harry's cup.
Harry drinks it without suspicion. Harry gets
in his car and drives to Mary's, already feeling
his stomach gurgling. Mary lets him in and asks
her to give him a minute, during which he cannot
take it anymore and decides to go to the bathroom
to relieve himself of his diarrhea. Mary knocks
on the door and tells him the toilet is broken,
but Harry panics and tells her she's just
shaving. While waiting for him to be done,
Mary hears the doorbell and goes to open the
door: it's Lloyd, who has finally come to tell
her he has the briefcase and invites her to
come over to his hotel room to retrieve it.
Mary accepts, so she goes to tell Harry, who is
desperately trying to fix the toilet, that she
must cancel their date because something important
came up. Lloyd and Mary take the minibike back
to the hotel. Once they make it to his room, he
returns the briefcase to her. Mary is very touched
by the gesture and thanks him with a kiss on his
cheek. After cutting to the hotel lobby to show
us Nicholas and Shay have also arrived, we return
to Lloyd, who is practicing his love confession
while Mary is in the bathroom. When she comes out,
Lloyd tells her he likes her after stumbling over
his words. Mary tells him his chances aren't
good, and after Lloyd asks her to be specific,
she says he has one in a million chance -
this makes Lloyd think he does have a chance.
They're interrupted by Nicholas, who reveals
the kidnapped person is Mary's husband Bobby.
Lloyd is hurt by this but he doesn't have time
to complain, because Nicholas is threatening
them with a gun. Meanwhile, in the hotel lobby,
we see Harry arrive and coming across Beth.
Back in the room, Mary is upset to find out
Nicholas was the one who kidnapped her husband.
When Lloyd mentions reimbursing, Nicholas makes
them open the briefcase and discovers all the
money has been spent and replaced with I.O.U.s. A
moment later Harry enters the room and discovers
Mary and Lloyd have been handcuffed to the bed.
Nicholas threatens him with the gun too and throws
him on the bed with them. While Nicholas makes a
phone call to buy a plane ticket, Lloyd and Harry
argue over betrayals, turns out Harry had always
known Lloyd was the one his ex cheated on him
with. Their bickering gets on Nichola's nerves,
so he comes over and asks who wants to die first.
Lloyd offers himself first, but Harry
jumps in and says it should be him,
which Lloyd accepts when he hears how much fun
he had with Mary. Nicholas shoots Harry and for
a moment they believe him to be dead, but suddenly
he stands up and shoots Nicholas, though he fails.
Nicholas is about to shoot again when the FBI
suddenly bursts into the room, lead by Beth,
who turns out to be an agent that has been
following them around pretending to be an airhead.
Back when she saw Harry in the lobby, she filled
him in and gave him a bulletproof vest and a gun
to pull off this plan. Moments later, everyone is
outside the hotel. Nicholas and Shay get arrested,
and Mary gets to reunite with her husband
Bobby Swanson. While seeing them together,
Lloyd daydreams about shooting Bobby, but plays
nice when Mary brings him over to introduce them.
The next day, the guys are walking on the road,
trying to find a way home and wondering when
they'll catch a break. A bus filled with gorgeous
girls in bikinis suddenly stops next to them and
the girls tell them they're looking for two guys
that will go with them to rub oil on their bodies
while they travel around the country on a bikini
tour. The guys tell them they're in luck because
they can find men in a town very close by,
the direction of which Harry points at. The
now confused girls leave then, and the guys barely
take another few steps before Lloyd realizes what
they've done. They run after the bus and ask
it to stop, only for Lloyd to tell them Harry
has pointed at the wrong way. Lloyd points in the
correct direction then lets the girls leave again.
The movie ends with the two friends
walking down the road, bickering.